ladies and gentlemen
conservatives are human beings too
right-wing politics are still real
politics
we ignore them at our peril and
the left wing the moderate left and
center
all like to pretend that there were no
new ideas and no debates
worth having for the whole of the right
wing
including frankly moderate conservatives
i have heard it said many times and i've
heard it said just lately
that there's no such thing as a
conservative university
every single time someone says this to
me i
challenge them i disagree and i say
things like
why don't you try going to google and
putting in
conservative university there are
conservative universities have you heard
of bringham
young
brigham young university
brigham young university would be a
better name let's face it
[Laughter]
brigham young university is a mormon
university
a religious university so conservative
that they openly tell you not to enroll
in the university at all if you plan to
have sex outside of marriage
if you plan to drink alcohol at any time
on campus or off campus while you're a
student
or even if you plan to drink tea or
coffee
so they are opposed to not just drinking
alcohol they're opposed to drinking
caffeine
they're opposed to sex drugs and rock
and roll that's as conservative
as it gets there are huge well-funded
conservative universities from coast to
coast
there are huge well-funded conservative
journals
of political science and political
philosophy there are and they're not
running out of pages to print you know
what i mean and most of us
on the left in the center we do choose
to live
in this kind of self-justifying echo
chamber of pretending
that nobody on the right wing and the
spectrum has any new ideas that they're
that progressives have a monopoly
on new ideas that progress by definition
involves new ideas
whereas you know whatever the
conservatives are interested in whatever
the right wing is interested in
is purely regress so this is one part of
this video is to say i am someone who is
left of center
and i'm i'm a skeptic and i'm a critic
of everything that's going on on the
left and on the center
but i'm willing to listen to you and i'm
willing to take seriously what's going
on the
the right way going on on the right wing
side of the aisle
i'm not willing to dismiss them quite so
flippantly that's one
big big major theme for this
video now another one in congressly
enough
is the way in which activism ruins
people's lives
i have a lot to say about this i have a
lot to say about it for left right and
center i have a lot to say about this
for
vegans meat eaters religious people
atheists
or what have you this is a segue to the
third big theme i think gotta talk about
this video
which is just the way that access to
fame money and sex on the internet
shapes everyone's lives everyone not
just celebrities
not just famous people and then starts
to engage
pardon me starts to shape the way that
they engage with politics
starts to change politics itself so you
guys may not know
uh i had quite a long series of
conversations
with the notorious right-wing youtuber
called evalian
these were conversations that transpired
through instagram
and involved both text messages and
audio recordings
back and forth you know where you record
your voice in one minute clips or
something but you can send as many as
you want so you can send 10 minutes of
audio or
whatever you need for whatever as you
say now
i'm not going to disclose anything in
this video that's private
that she said to me however precisely in
preparing to conduct an interview with
her
i was watching the interview she gave
and previously i was looking around at
the bits and pieces of her remaining web
presence
she's been banned and deleted over the
internet and
most of her story already is public and
on the record
although you have to look around for the
crumbs for the scattered
remnants of what that story is and
there is certainly an important
comparison to be made
between the experience of a valiant and
the experience of someone like
belle delphine
if you don't know who bill delphine is
or why she's relevant to this story
um bill delphine
one of the wealthiest women to ever
sell the image of her body on the
internet
or in print media so we have this
concept
especially in left-wing politics of
exploitation and it deserves to be asked
well if you're paid just three hundred
dollars
to perform a sex act on the internet and
then this is pelvic
you suffer the consequence forever you
know is is this exploitation
is this is this justifiable okay well
what if it's not three hundred dollars
what if it's three thousand dollars
what if it's three hundred thousand
dollars what if it's three million
dollars
the same ethical questions that we ask
about sexual exploitation
start to seem surreal once the financial
rewards
mount up into the millions and millions
of dollars and you're talking about
someone becoming fabulously wealthy
through exploiting their own body
exploiting their own image and
exploiting their own
sexuality actually engaging in what
would be called prostitution
under any other uh circumstances so
fairly recently bill delphine kind of
broke her silence broke the mystique
she'd built up over many years because
she did she used to not say much
i mean she was right she would speak as
a sort of fictional character
but i mean she didn't really talk about
her own life she didn't talk about for
example her relationship with her mother
and father
and her upbringing and these things and
then at a certain point in her career
she she turned a corner
and she started talking about sort of
who she really was and how she
how she got involved with the culture of
the internet and how she first started
uh doing erotic modeling on the internet
how these things happened
and the most striking parallel between
belle delphine and evalium is that
evalian did not
initially get involved with the internet
as a
neo-nazi she did not initially get
involved the internet as
a political leader or political
antagonist or protagonist or anything of
the sort she didn't get involved
as an activist or what have you the
first
encounter she had with the internet that
changed the rest of her life
was indeed exploiting her sex appeal
exploiting her appearance getting
attention from men getting gifts from
men
ultimately getting money from men over
the internet
in exchange for basically doing
flirtatious and
salacious things on the internet and she
started doing that at a shockingly
young age bel delphine
same statement very different
consequences right the vast majority of
young women
who get drawn into flirting with men
exchanging photos for gifts
or let's say also uh flirting and
pretending to be someone's girlfriend
pretending to be more interested in them
than you really are this this kind of
thing in exchange for
maybe just fame notoriety the joy of
seeing people gossiping about you on the
internet like that
a lot for young people oh it used to be
that just people in my high school would
gossip about me and they all say these
bad things about me now i have these
people on the internet and they're
saying
you know they're saying different kinds
of things about me they're really
excited
to talk to me like that that alone may
be what you know gets that
gets that reward um but you have a sort
of
curiously parallel pair of histories
in the case of bel delphine and uh
evalian in that they were drawn to this
kind of attention that the internet
offered them and they were very rapidly
corrupted by it
and in both cases you know their
sex appeal wasn't enough it wasn't
enough for
them to get the attention they they
desired
both of them very quickly escalated into
doing
more and more shocking things now look
i'm someone who's difficult to shock the
current uh bell du jour
on the internet is called amaranth
if you google amaranth pigeonhead
or amaranth horse mask there are a lot
of
people who are in this way combining sex
appeal
with doing something shocking and
salacious to get a much larger audience
than they otherwise would get
there are only so many people interested
in seeing a woman in a bikini
and there are a lot of women in bikinis
on the internet
competing for those few eyeballs
competing for those few customers
but it turns out if you put on a pigeon
head
and make sorry it's a mask in the shape
of a pigeon's head
and you make noises like a pigeon well
that's suddenly that's really unique
that's
it's sort of shocking it's sort of
disturbing everyone remembers you
everyone talks about you
you've created a sort of sort of
notoriety for yourself
and you distinguish yourself from the
masses of other
young women in bikinis who are competing
for the same kind of male attention
right so i would just say any no each of
these examples is very different from
the others
but broadly speaking at a situation
where these young women
uh were both drawn into having a public
platform
and doing shocking and provocative
things in that platform in order to get
male attention they start escalating
their act they start doing more shocking
and provocative things
and you know in the case of bill
delphine this led into this
surreal career ultimately terminating
with hardcore porn but for many many
years she didn't do
hardcore porn by the way um she did kind
of vaguely provocative and
uh publicity stunts
that were erotic in nature but not
really pornographic for a long long time
she
played with friends but in the case of
evalian
she quite consciously and intentionally
elevated and escalated her trolling she
was seeing what was and wasn't getting a
response what was and wasn't exciting
uh public attention and she ended up
creating this basically fictional
neo-nazi character right now
in both cases the fiction became
fact the mask became the face
that's probably because coming back to
my second of the three big themes
political activism has a real and
devastating consequences
in people's eyes
show it to everyone in the audience
listening to you guys if you have a
second hit the
thumbs up button it'll help more people
find this live stream while it's going
on
um on the other hand if this live stream
is not shadow banned
if this is not the most censored the
shadow fan livestream on youtube i don't
know what it is
so thanks anyone who's awake on this
friday night nice to see you here
shout out to everyone in new zealand
um so it's a good time of day for for my
viewers on the east coast
not so good for people in europe uh just
saying but if you have a second hit the
thumbs up guys it will help more people
discover the live stream while it's
going on and joining the conversation
and i'm happy to uh
happy to talk to you about this stuff as
we're as we're rolling
okay now
so someone in the audience commented at
least it doesn't have nazi in the title
if you search for the word nazi on my
youtube channel you will see a
remarkable array of videos that
do have nancy in the title i have one
titled yes i'm calling you a nazi
blank is a nazi here's why it's a
problem
the history of uh nazism and occult
ideology i've dealt with
nazi and neo-nazi phenomena from many
different angles and indeed it may be
one reason why my channel is as shadow
man as it is
in general i just say i know it sounds
very self-serving when people say hey
share the link with your friends but
when you have a channel as politically
provocative as mine i can say pretty
safely if people don't directly share
the link you know nobody's going to get
it because i i
am everything that youtube exists to
silence
and and to be fair so is it valiant
some of you guys may not know about me
i'm vegan
vegan vegan water
vegan bananas vegan tomato evalian
is also vegan you know and she was vegan
back in the day when she first started
won this whole as she said
i was looking at a youtube channel
recently uh
from a youtuber called vegan booty she
spells it in a slightly odd way
v hyphen g-a-n booty so that you can
google it and find the right person
all these same themes occur with her by
the way she is currently earning a
living
through only fans through selling
nude images of herself unonly fans a
fateful decision to make in life
she has a video talking about in a
fairly light-hearted
way the consequences she's been through
legally and in terms of how her life
i don't even know what city she's from
in australia but her life in her
particular town or particular city
has become more and more difficult
because of the
suasion of city hall the deterrence from
local business owners
and the increasing hostility of the the
police in the court system against her
and she's now facing charges in court
she at first had a fine she refused to
pay the fine
she went to court to fight the final
principal and she could in theory
face jail time but i mean even though
it's a very short period of time in jail
yeah tell me what you're feeling sorry i
got one member of a live audience here
uh anyway even though it's gonna be a
very short uh yeah
i know well i'll come back to that so
mostly just laughing because
this girl goes by the moniker vegan
booty yeah oh well
the sex is part of her act too so as as
much as part of her form she she was
doing uh
topless protesting and you know in
british empire
in the in canada and australia the
status of being topless as a woman
it's not exactly illegal but it's
certainly not encouraged and you know
anyway um you know it's really easy for
people to come on the internet and be
encouraging and say oh everyone
everyone should be a political activist
everyone pick up a sign
everyone change the world like get out
get out and riot guys
you know the world would be a better
place and it's rare that you have people
speaking in a down-to-earth honest way
of what the consequences are
and now i keep warning on this channel
the so-called positive consequences of
this foreign political activism are very
nebulous
very impalable very often they're just
nothing at all
the negative consequences very real very
palpable
very verifiable and you know
last a lifetime so this particular
activist she has now been banned
from every bar and restaurant in the
city
she's living in so they have some
i wonder if this is like a 19th century
bylaw they have
but if you have been causing a
disturbance
in enough borrowers in her jurisdiction
they can pass a resolution and i don't
know if this is passed by city hall
or by the local judge in the court like
it's not or the police i'm not sure who
does this
it's the australian legal system but
they passed a resolution that
bans her from the premises of any
establishment that serves alcohol
so in australia that's every bar every
night club but it's most
restaurants also right the vast majority
of restaurants serve beer or serve wine
there
so you can't and you can't set foot in
any of you can't eat there
you can't work there you can't this is
gonna impact your life
and it's part of now okay she is a
relatively young
a relatively attractive person right
um she is a white female
i think that the prejudice of the whole
legal system is at this point in her
favor
i think probably many of the people who
are imposing these
punishments on her are thinking well
she's still young
she could still turn her life around she
could still have a real career she can
still have a real education
there is this sense in which the
prejudices of the system up to a certain
point are still being
encouraging for you they're still trying
to be corrective
and let's keep in mind the term used is
the department of corrections
right they're still trying to help you
get your life back on
track and then you pass a certain
threshold where they count you as a
lost cause they consider you
incorrigible
and they are just punitive against you
where they just say so again a lot of
people who have experience with drug
addiction or something went through this
actually i had a friend who was in and
out of jail if that was i could
tell you that that guy's a phd he's a
guy he was an ex-convict with a phd
but he'd been in and out of jail and he
had drug and alcohol problems for him it
was more alcohol
than drugs but there were some illegal
drugs involved he was he was really an
alcoholic though
he ended up with a phd great guy
but i remember he said he could feel the
change
in the court system with the lawyers
with the judges
but also with the therapists with like
the psychotherapists and psychiatrists
we're up to a certain point they were
like well you know we're trying to get
you back on your feet we're trying to
get you back in the workforce
we're trying to get you back in touch
with your parents like we're trying to
make you you know get you back on track
with this kind of middle class life we
presume you're gonna have
right and then after he passed a certain
threshold the attitude was
you're incorrigible you are a you know
long-term
drug addict and alcoholic person the
only thing we're going to do is put you
in jail put you in mothballs forget it
like you're you've been written off
by the system we're just going to throw
the book at you and give you the
heaviest heaviest monitoring
and i do think one of the most palpable
forms of racism
as well as gender prejudice is the
difference between being a white female
and a black male in these circumstances
definitely i mean
even if you're a young black male if
you're a black guy and you're 21
people treat you like an old man and you
have no potential in life and the system
really punishes you very severely for
very minor infractions
whereas they are in terms of their
prejudice they're going to be inclined
with a 21 year old female be like oh
she's got her whole life ahead of her
you know she
all of us have our whole lives ahead of
us okay but i just say
um my claim is not that this particular
activist
that the particular offenses she's
guilty of will have already
permanently and irretrievably ruined her
life i'm saying
that she is committed to continuing to
commit these offenses
and she's going to end up in the same
situation that evalian
is in today all right so in case you
don't know
switching over to a very different
political activist of a very different
color evalian
cannot cross the border into canada even
though she is a canadian citizen
she is on a terrorist watch list
she is not just watched by the police
she is treated like an active ongoing
armed terrorist threat all the time
so the level of surveillance the level
of intimidation and the level of having
her bag
searched and so on uh the impossibility
for her of getting normal employment or
living a normal life
it for her it is really on the same
level as if she had been convicted of
muslim terrorist attacks or something
organizing some of that
now she never did do anything like that
however she
associated herself with the most
notorious and the most terrible
you know uh neo-nazis that exist on this
earth both in the united states and
canada
in terms of the the authorities having a
chalkboard
and drawing lines between different
despicable characters and how they
linked each other in terms of just
the transcript of things she had said on
the internet
you know there's no doubt there's no
it's not really like you're innocent
until proven guilty
she had proven herself guilty she had
proven that she was a threat to the
political establishment she's proven
that she's a threat to the status quo
she's proven that she's going to try to
make money
of doing this again and again unless you
keep banning her
shutting down her websites you know etc
etc so
i'm just pointing out for a lot of
people who are involved in less
notorious causes than a valiant
this is still the same kind of life
cycle you can look forward to
now i said before evalian really started
her career this way um
by exploiting her own sexuality on the
internet by flirting with men and
presenting yourself in a certain way
and by the way the youtube channel that
is called a valium
that was not her first youtube channel
she told me about that again this isn't
private she's talked about it in
numerous
interviews and she used to have a
written autobiographical account on the
internet
which was banned and deleted from the
internet so you can't find anymore but i
read it before it disappeared
so she's also written about her
experience so she had youtube channels
prior to the evalian project
and this kind of um coy exploitation of
her own
sexuality in the internet and the men it
brought into her life
like the men who were actually her
boyfriends in real life apart from the
men who were maybe sending her gifts
over the internet or
as we would say in today's promise
simping for her supporting her
this obviously it radically
fundamentally changed her view of
everything it changed her view of her
own career of her unemployment of how
she was going to earn money you know
it made stardom and fame seem to be you
know
within easy reach for and it was
both of these people are in the tiny
tiny minority
for whom the reward for exploiting their
sexuality has been much greater than the
risk
or the cost right now by the way this
woman i mentioned as a as a comparison
here vegan booty
she is not fabulously wealthy the way
belle del fine is
i do not think she is a millionaire i
don't think she is ever going to be
a millionaire but she has managed to
create enough notoriety for herself on
the internet
she has managed to do protesting topless
i don't know if she ever does it fully
nude but she's done protesting topless
she backs the so-called hashtag
free the nipple you know movement she's
all this stuff
all this whole ideological package put
together and then she's able to cash in
on that
through the website only fans where
people will pay to see her naked and pay
to talk to her
and it may well be by the way i'm not
that cynical about it maybe that the
vast majority of those people supporting
her only fans
support her political crusade that they
don't really support her as a
sex object or something it's not that
they idealize her or find her beautiful
it may be that they're giving that money
saying that hey they sympathize with
what she's trying to do as a vegan
activist
certainly part of it and again apropos
my earlier comment
yes there are millions of men on the
internet who want to see
women in bikinis but there are also
millions of women in bikinis
so this quality of distinguishing
yourself
differentiating yourself through doing
things that are shocking
and provocative whether that is like the
now famous
livestream or amaranth whether that is
putting on
the mask of a pigeon google it if you
don't believe me it's truly
bizarre such really surreal and
disturbing sight this woman wearing a
pigeon
whether that is you know as this vegan
protester does
engaging in shocking extreme forms of
political activism
disturbing and confrontational forms of
activism to gain notoriety that way
or whether that is like a valiant making
ridiculous
over-the-top racist statements neo-nazi
statements far right-wing political
things
this is something that distinguishes you
from the crowd and you know brings you
into the orbit of
a larger audience yes and then it's
going to also result you having a much
more passionate and intense
connection with that audience because
they're no longer just looking for
anyone
in a bikini and you're not just
competing with other people bikini
versus bikini or
body versus body right now you're
competing with people in a very
different way
you've uh you've distinguished the uh
the product you're you're uh
you're selling great question from the
audience eliano
asks are you going to keep this live
stream up
i am uh i am a better question be
will youtube allow me to keep this last
but yeah as far as i'm concerned sure
this is going to be on the youtube
channel uh
within the next 24 hours after it wraps
you should be able to see this
uh i'm fearless about this stuff and
that's because i'm willing to take the
negative consequences guys
sorry i said whatever 20 minutes ago or
something if you search my youtube
channel for the word nazi
you're going to find many many many
videos that have nothing entitled i'm
willing to take those risks i'm willing
to take on those really hard issues and
i always have been
and by the way all these discussions
have real world outcomes and you know
conservatives are human beings too
neo-nazis are human beings too
but i know i had a really devastating
effect in the life of one uh neo-nazi
guy
this was a uh mccarthy you know he was a
white supremacist named
forgetting his corey mccarthy cory
mccarthy was a white supremacist and his
girlfriend at the time now ex-girlfriend
was a white supremacist and i made
videos really
exposing them is the best way to put it
it wasn't even the criticism so much it
was just showing
this is who this guy really is and it
completely ruined his career now
you know of course obviously he's to
blame he's the one who's a [ __ ] nazi
you know he's the one who's a white
supremacist he's the one who's doing
these things
but um i know many people wrote to me
and said that they had supported
corey mccarthy's career they'd supported
him as a kind of fitness guru
bodybuilding guru and then they were
shocked to learn from my channel that
the guy was this
white supremacist right-wing racist
figure and song and then that changed
the view of the zone
so i know it didn't just like affect the
number of views he had on youtube
it affected the it affected the way he
was perceived and understood and up to
that time he had been building a larger
and larger audience
so vegan gains was just mentioned and
that's right vegan gains
actively promoted cory mccarthy's
channel on his own channel and it is
discord and so on
um and uh sorry you whoever said this
you may not know i was friends with
richard in those days i was friends with
vegan gains very strange sort of
friendship but i did ask him about that
all the time i challenge him i was like
look why are you supporting this guy
i sent richard a clip of uh corey
mccarthy and i sent one of tara mccarthy
so that was his girlfriend at the time
you know i don't think they ever got
married but if they got married they got
divorced
if not she used the name tara mccarthy
anyway he um pardon me
i remember sending richard a clip saying
look this is tara mccarthy
answering a question she was directly
asked by the audience would you support
exiling people like richard from the
country would you support exiling people
who are
partly of african descent but are
culturally canadian from canada or the
united states is this actually your
agenda
and she sat there and took the question
and the answer was long story short yes
that their political agenda they wanted
to expel from the united states and
canada
non-white people especially they were
especially racist
against black people and they were
especially racist against arab people uh
broadly speaking people who were anyway
i think in one word arab covers it
but this is not to say this is the full
limit of their racism that was their
special focus in terms of their racism
and um
you know i remember sending richard that
clip and asked like look dude
how can you be friends with these people
how can you be positively promoting them
on on your channel
and by the way i wasn't begging for a
shout out or something like you know i
don't give it doesn't help me if you
promote my
channel on his channel but like he's not
promoting me i mean i might be a
somewhat controversial figure for
richard
promote his channel but like look these
are the people you are
promoting this is what you are willing
to do and it's not clear how or why you
would uh
you know you would you would uh
sympathize them oh
right oh that's an interesting uh
interesting question from alt richard
or no atlanta richard i guess that's atl
richard
uh how do you value your friendships
today i.e muhammad
and similar sincere intellects so
that's interesting you remember muhammad
muhammad is a guy who's appeared on the
youtube channel a very long
time ago and you're correct he is a
sincere
you know uh intellectual um
and you know i think sincere
intellectuals go through sincere
problems
and sincere struggles you know um the
few people i've met through the internet
who are sincere intellectuals in this
sense
they have not been able to contribute to
my life very positively
and they're not collaborating with me
and they're not contributing to this
youtube channel to give a really low
example of how you might contribute to
someone's life um they're not a lot
positive has come out of those things
for me
now you know sorry in terms of things
that are positive you guys know
my regular show here as a live streamer
is booktube
but it would have meant a lot to me if i
even knew people who were reading the
same
books i read and discussing them with me
it would mean a lot to me if i knew
people who did a political show with me
i've had a lot of critique lately of um
the young turks
you know but in terms of format it would
be wonderful for me if i had someone
sitting next to me or five people in the
room with me
doing politics on a on a round table you
know
uh so you know it's true i have met a
few people
who are you know sincere public spirit
intellectuals and i've tried to include
them in my life
in a meaningful way and those people are
busy with their own problems
and they're agonizing over their own
their own crises in life
but yeah muhammad is one of the few but
we're we're still in touch we talked
yesterday the day before yesterday so we
we do talk with them
i hope he reads my book when it comes
out there's an example though in terms
of collaboration
several intellectuals i know including
the youtuber ods so some of you guys
know oliver some of you don't
but he is reading and proofreading my
book so he does you know
he does uh catch my typos which is great
i really do
value that so there are ways in which
other intellectuals can get a sense of
okay guys so you can see i'm happy to
digress and answer questions from the
audience and i have to keep doing that
uh we have only 12 thumbs up and we have
more than 30 people in the audience
if you guys take a second hit the thumbs
up it will just help more people
discover
the live stream assuming we're not
completely shadow banned
for having um a valiant in the title of
the video and i will return to the topic
of a valiant and right-wing politics
i'm going to read out the questions that
i had for her and then i shared with her
um in preparing to do an interview with
her an interview that will apparently
now
never happen so another question uh from
the
from the audience um i am asked quote
do you have any religious friends
well the answer right now is no
i did in the past and back when i was
single which is now a very long time ago
you know quite a number of the women i
met and i was really attracted to
were religious and so i had to think
about that i really had to think about
would i be capable of having a
girlfriend or a wife
who was religious and what would it mean
for me and what would it would it mean
for her now i mentioned that right at
the start of this video
like you know left-wingers people have
centered that kind of
dismiss the possibility of there being
any conservatives in
universities like you know as if
universities are all left-wing and all
progressive and they're not
um and then i mentioned a particular
conservative university where you're
forbidden from drinking
uh alcohol and forbidden to drink to
smoke marijuana and this kind of thing
well if you would if you ask the
question why would this guy ever be
interested in a religious woman
these are reasons i lead this kind of
very sober self-disciplined
life so if what you want is a woman who
reads books
doesn't drink alcohol doesn't smoke
marijuana doesn't want to go to night
clubs
doesn't want to go dancing they say like
someone who lives the same kind of life
i do and has the same kind of commitment
to the life of the mind
um you might meet a woman who is like
that because
you know she's committed to the life of
the soul i don't i don't believe we have
a soul
however you know these are kind of
compatible uh lies
so by the way the women i'm thinking of
are women i did meet in person face to
face i'm not talking about
other youtubers some of you really
followed my youtube channel can name one
of those youtubers
there was one youtuber i kind of uh kind
of flirted with a bit but it was
it was really just a joke for both of us
uh who was religious
but you know um no i'm talking about
women i did meet in real life
um you know i i would just say though in
terms of friendships with men and look
this actually comes back to the subject
of this video
um the right wing thing i think it is
very very difficult
for most men to deal with the challenge
to their authority that's involved in
that particular
contrast like the contrast between like
a man who really believes that the
difference between
heaven and hell is this crucial
definitive thing in his life and that he
spends his time going out and preaching
the gospel to strangers so they won't go
to hell after they die
you know a guy who has that kind of
attitude being around someone like me
who in a very self-confident
self-assured way will completely
disassemble their worldview
and say oh yeah you know well do you
believe in slavery do you believe in
male circumcision do you believe in
female circumcision you know um
i think that's something very very few
men would be able to
to cope with so no i mean this is
there's a long story short for do you
have really friends now
look i just mentioned the topic of this
video was about taking conservatism
seriously and taking right-wing politics
seriously
i was going to come back to this later
in the video i make no notes there are
no written notes with us but i just
when i was in the shower i thought about
the list of things i wanted to talk
about
you know um the whole conservative
movement the right wing movement and
right of center movement
it's completely torn apart by precisely
this issue right
now many of you okay let's let's just
break this down
let's break this down old school um
the single most powerful sentiment
in the right wing right now is
islamophobia
let's be honest all right um
however the question i have to ask you
is this
is it really coherent for conservatives
to be anti-muslim and
anti-semitic and nevertheless
simultaneously be pro-christian
if they were to make a list of what it
is they dislike about
and oppose about islam and they were to
make a list of what it is they dislike
and oppose about judaism
if you were to go down this checklist
whatever the top 10 things or something
they dislike about these religions
christianity has most of these things in
common
with judaism and islam the critique of
islam
depending on your critique at least 80
percent of it applies to christianity
also the critique of judaism 80 percent
of it applies to christianity also
so the outright islamophobia of
conservatives
and the outright anti-semitism of the
far right wing
neo-nazis etc these things are not
really compatible with a christian
worldview
you know and i think that is this is a
huge contradiction
that everyone from fox news to
everyone from fox news to cnn wants to
pretend
doesn't matter now by contrast who says
very briefly so so the question i'm
branching off was just someone asking
you know do you have religious friends
okay let's say you go to a republican
party function
there are a lot of catholic hispanic
people
there they're conservative or even right
wing
hispanic catholics there are a lot of
deeply protestant conservative black
people there
conservative black american
african-american
preachers and church-goers and followers
all right
and there are right-wing white people
there
what cnn likes to do is pretend that the
problem is ethnicity
that the problem is like the difference
in skin color
and it's not the problem is a difference
in creed religion beliefs cultural
values
agenda view of the future like the
problem is real politics
right real politics are involved here
now again i'm left of center myself
but i'm not insensitive to this every
left-wing movement i've ever heard of in
the world
from the labor party in england to the
green party in canada has been torn
apart
internally over israel
now you could add to israel you could
say
israel and anti-semitism you could say
israel
and violence against palestinians you
could say israel and
american foreign policy you could add a
lot of things but in one word
israel right it's very very hard for the
labor party
in uh in england to cope with
the internal divisions related to
judaism anti-semitism
israel centers and sorry if you're not
british and you don't care
you don't have to google it but really
this has really been a big big deal
um in in the uk now obviously again for
an outsider for cnn or something you can
look at that and you say oh the problem
is the color of people's skin the
problem is their
ethnicity no it's a this is real
politics this really matters you know
the question of like what is england's
political commitment
what is their strategy in terms of
geopolitics in relation to saudi arabia
and iran and israel i think this is a
really difficult set of questions
you know what what is your moral
commitment on israel and palestine and
everything else and it is in some ways
especially difficult for england england
is in a worse
situation than the united states on that
in many ways you know so anyway i just
say you don't want to trivialize it you
don't want to dismiss it but
the right wing is deeply internally
divided and they're really divided
against themselves and they are divided
within their own hearts
because the easiest way for them to do
fundraising is to wrap themselves
in the christian flag is to present
themselves as the bastion
of christian morality but that's not who
they really are now another really brief
example of that is the whole phenomenon
of right-wing libertarianism
now there is a sense in which
libertarianism is not authentically
right-wing that's another interesting
thing like
libertarianism is in some ways more like
hyperliberalism
right but right-wing libertarians are
not homophobic
right-wing libertarians are not opposed
to people being able to smoke marijuana
or even use heroin and cocaine
right-wing libertarians support the
decriminalization of all drugs they say
just liberalize it all
right-wing libertarians are against
total decriminalization of owning guns
let everyone own all the guns they want
this is the right-wing libertarian
view of things to minimize legal
interference you know in all these ways
right-wing libertarians do not share
centrist
or conservative or genuinely right-wing
social values
and they say hey let everyone have gay
sex if they want to let gay people adopt
children if they want they
they don't share any of the right wing
talking points
but most crucially of all although
right-wing libertarians including people
who are direct devotees of ann rand
although they wrapped themselves in the
cloak of christianity
right those guys are all anti-christian
to their core and let me be clear i do
not mean
atheist being atheist is very different
from being anti-christian what the ann
rand right-wing libertarians are into
is specifically attacking the moral
claims
that christian is based on which by the
way most of the most of the um
most of the left-wing atheist in this
audience
would actually sympathize with the type
of moral claims we're talking about here
okay we're talking about sermon on the
mount type [ __ ] we're talking about
caring for the poor having a society
based on
uh compassion take care of the weak and
the downtrodden
that sentimental side of christianity
of the rich caring for the poor and of
humility
and voluntary poverty and help your
neighbor and doing to others
that is precisely what anne rand
attacked that is precisely what the
right-wing
libertarians attacked they actually
attack faith hope and charity
all right they attack the kind aspects
of crisis it's not that they're critics
of uh circumcision
it's not that the critics see what i
mean like it's not that they're against
the authoritarian elements of
of of christianity they're actually
against the
frankly the elements of christianity
that left-wing people still appreciate
and many left-wing movements frankly try
to
imitate um aspects of christianity so
i'm going to read some of the more
questions
as you can see i'm i'm relating this
back to the topic of the live stream
but i do have more to say about the
valiant and about the uh
about the far right in general
here's a question what are your thoughts
on your conversation with troy
parfit or thoughts on his book so i did
follow up that conversation by posting a
review that is very brief and very
negative
and i'll now post the link to that
review if you're interested
it's who asked uh wicked energy
okay so wicked energy here's a link for
you
um you know i just say
in my interviews i am really quite
polite and encouraging to these people
who was that meat eater i was so blind
and approaching to that that crazy guy
frank tufano so if you want to see an
example of just how polite and
encouraging i can be i interviewed this
guy called frank the fun i was a
complete maniac
and he he doesn't believe in the theory
of evolution and all this stuff
but i'm kind of polite and encouraging
and let him state his philosophy of life
and his view of the world and i draw him
out and so on
um and i was being polite in a similar
way
in my interview with um with troy
you know but in on a simple factual
level
i think troy is totally wrong i mean i
think and you you get that hinted at
you know and i don't say to him hey look
i think you're totally wrong but i see
things like uh so you know when you look
at uh
when you look at the symbolic use of
these ancient
egyptian gods in the writing of dr
jordan peterson what
symbolic value do you ascribe to them
and why you know i'm kind of drawing
them out in this way
but i think it's very obvious in that
video i was trying to get at skeptically
what is your basis for assigning your
interpretation to these things that are
mentioned
uh really just in passing in jordan
peterson's book and that
you know no i don't i don't accept his
his interpretation or his assignation of
this the significance to it
so yeah it's an interesting moment so i
would just say i was tempted
babe can you grab the copy of jordan
peterson's book for me
um i was tempted to do a fundraiser for
this
so guys i was tempted to do a um i could
do right now a thumbs up challenge if
you got 30 thumbs up i'll review this
book
i was tempted to do a uh i was tempted
to do like a a gofundme
type thing like pay me minimum wage to
read jordan peterson's book
but there it is there is beyond order 12
rules for life
by jordan peterson so if you don't
believe me it was on sale it was on
special i own a legitimate copy
jordan peterson got my money already but
yeah i was tempted like do i really want
to devote the hours to reading this book
so if you pay me minimum wage if you pay
me fifteen dollars an hour
maybe we can figure out hours i just
thought about i thought
could i do a fundraiser maybe jordan
peterson's fans would pay me 15
an hour to read this book but yeah i
mean i do kind of feel like um
there's a little bit i mean look in the
same way as making this video now i do
feel
like there's an onus on me as a
dissident
intellectual talking about politics to
deal with what's going on in the
conservative right way
to deal with a figure like a valia and
apparently nobody else will and nobody
else can like guys
you're never gonna hear this on the
young turks you're never gonna hear it
on cnn you're never gonna hear it on fox
news
you're never gonna hear on any tv
station but also other youtube channels
are never gonna deal with the material
that's in this video right now
now in the same way
sadly no one is going to deal with
jordan peterson's work the way
only i can or only i will um
so yeah i do feel some kind of
obligation to it would i prefer to do it
if i could get paid
15 an hour for i don't even know is it
10 hours to read this
yeah it would make i'm just being honest
it would make a big difference to me i
wish
i wish i even just had the certainty
that the cost of buying the book would
be recouped through the number of views
i get on youtube and it will not be
so yeah i do feel bad about it i do have
other priorities of other things to read
about things they're right
so it's it's hard but yes i you know so
thank you the question was about my
interview with troy which concerned
jordan peterson and this book
and yeah part of me does want to press
further with that critique even if it's
only for the benefit of say 1 000
viewers
who might watch it and look at again i
come out of a non-fiction background
1000 it's it's a small number by
something it's a big number in other
ways
right if i i know a lot of people who
published a book
i know a lot of people who publish their
phd thesis
a thousand people never read it like
really like
so i am willing to look at it in that
frame of reference and say well
if i reach 1000 people with this and i
have something really meaningful to say
something really meaningful to offer
that maybe it's still worthwhile for
everyone involved
oh yeah so wicked energy comments i
noticed that he
troy so troy is the guy who criticized
jordan peterson i noticed that he had
some really great examples
mixed with absolutely flimsy examples
right and i think that his book
never once addresses this never once
but he's influenced by this school of
linguistic analysis
where he treats he treats things that
you and i would consider substantive in
terms of
content as being interchangeable
with and equally as valid as a sentence
that merely has some of the same
nouns and adjectives it's very very
strange and
i said to him right at the beginning of
the interview i said to him
what you call plagiarism nobody else
would call plagiarism you know
and you we had a good conversation he
was able to stay on that level and talk
back and forth about it but
yes what you say is true he presents
really great examples
and then he'll place something
completely flimsy and laughable right
next to each other he doesn't seem to be
aware himself
of uh what will and will not be taken
seriously by the audience
as a meaningful example of this kind of
uh uh yeah
so a comment from william mcgee and
william again says quote jordan peterson
made a comeback recently to edition with
benzodiazepine
so william some of the most popular
videos ever
on my channel were precisely indictments
of jordan peterson
on that issue and dealing with his drug
addiction so i had
videos specifically dealing with
benzodiazepines
specifically dealing with this history
with antidepressants
and with other uh drug habits so
i don't know i don't tell you i've got a
playlist here how many videos you guys
can imagine how many videos have i made
criticizing
jared peterson the grand total is
currently 29.
so if you click on this link you will
get that list of videos and you will see
some of them have
drug addiction and title some of them
have um
some of the benzodiazepines so look okay
another question and this is relevant to
today's
video again guys so we now have more
people in the audience if you hit the
thumbs up button that will help us
reach more viewers and get more
questions while we're still going live
said i appreciate it if you hit the
thumbs up button if you change your mind
later
you can change you can change it to a
thumbs down if later you decide this is
a lousy podcast
i'm 47 minutes in if you haven't made
your mind up yet it's a good time to hit
thumbs up now
so uh atlanta richard says is there
enough
evidence to say that peterson is a
crypto fascist
though so my answer is
no and what i'm repeatedly hinting at
in the conversation with troy and really
directly challenging him with i'm not
just hinting at it
i'm confronting him with i said well
look troy the problem is
that the stronger the cases that you
prove that this guy
jordan peterson is fundamentally lazy
and crazy and just influenced by these
authors that you name influence with
folks
that by the same token you're proving
that he's not a crypto fascist so that
he's not giving specific
signals for specific far-right ideology
these things he's just he's just being
an idiot you know what i mean
so i did confront him with that
repeatedly um the
stupider you believe jordan peterson to
be the less
method you see in his madness the
crazier you perceive
jordan peterson to be the more you
perceive these things just as
self-indulgent nonsense and not as some
kind of organized
crypto fascist movement so yeah within
my patreon sorry
shout out there was a patreon supporter
but within my own patreon i also did
present the um the counter evidence in
this way
where if you actually listen to what
jordan peterson has to say about the eye
of horus
what he has to say about these ancient
uh egyptian gods
some of them are from ancient
mesopotamia and so on the ancient near
east okay so you listen to this stuff
it does not sound like a coherent
conspiracy
for a right-wing takeover it sounds like
a self-indulgent
middle-aged man who has indeed recently
recovered from drug addiction and has a
long history of drug use
and ex you know experimenting with
hallucinogenic drugs and
what have you and he's someone who grew
up with this uh
jungian tradition of psychology and
reading really crappy pulp fiction books
about you know um uh
what kind of pop mythology theories
there there's a lot of there are counter
arguments here that would substantively
instead
you know delineate jordan peterson's
project as fundamentally self-indulgent
and stupid
rather than some kind of highly
motivated
neo-nazi plot um
just reading the comments okay good
question what is the link between those
who follow peterson and then slowly
become
more and more influenced by people like
evalian and lauren southern
so look great question um
and there was another youtuber
man what was his name now oh
there's a guy who um who had a whole
bunch of videos about the right wing
funnel and his real name was caleb
kane shut up the caleb
i could probably search his real name
that's right and his youtube channel was
called
faraday speaks so there was this here i
can i can share the link
so caleb kane aka faraday speaks he
really did a lot to popularize this idea
of a right-wing
funnel okay uh i had an email from that
guy
three weeks ago we had a very brief
email email.
we're not friends we're not but we have
spoken in the past we've spoken by voice
call and we've spoken by email in the
past
um but we're not friends i
really fundamentally reject the
right right-wing funnel mythos
okay human beings make decisions
human beings make mistakes you know what
i mean
it's on you and you know i've had female
friends
who were anorexic okay
nobody can say oh well you know i i used
to read this magazine that has beautiful
skinny women in it and therefore
they became anorexic it doesn't work
that way
like and i'm not even hating on people
someone who might in a really
short casual conversation say that i'm
not gonna assume they're being insincere
or
you know i'm not to say that they're
lying to themselves i know if you're
just having a casual conversation that's
one thing
but if you meet someone who really
sincerely considers themselves
a passive victim of something they saw
on the cover of a magazine
or even on a billboard you know
advertising women's clothes and felt
they have to look like this woman on the
billboard
you know no no no no at some point the
[ __ ] has to stop and we have to talk
about
you and you are the person who chose to
watch that youtube video
and you are the person who chose to read
that book and you're the person who
chose to question it
or or not question it and you know the
the
you can't look at these people as
passive
passengers riding along in these
political ideologies
and you can't look at women who decide
to become very thin or very fat or do
something else as the passive victims
of an ideology of body image or beauty
or anything else you know
we we have to treat the protagonist as
primary
you know so look you've asked a question
about
people jumping onto uh jordan peterson
this way and then ending up
you know
you know i i just think we really have
to take okay look have you guys ever
heard right-wing christians
claim that they became gay because they
read one
pornographic magazine when they were 15
years old or something that they were
exposed to
pornography and became gay instead of
straight
someone in the audience says the cops
are onto you
we live in a high crime neighborhood
sorry digression from a digression here
i went to the bakery to buy bread
how many people openly smoking uh
you know i i would assume they were
smoking opiates but it could be crack
cocaine could be opiates you know
uh but smoking out of a glass pipe
freebasing
um how did i pass on just on the
sidewalk
walking to go to the bakery and back
minimum
minimum 12 maybe it was more like 18
people
and i'm not imagining that these people
were on drugs you could directly see
them like
you could see the glass pipe you could
see them nodding over on the ground
um so we live in a high crime
neighborhood
and those those sirens you just heard it
could
using drugs is legal here it's not
illegal but probably someone had an
overdose
or maybe one of them stabbed one of the
others you know they had a fight amongst
themselves that happens to
but yeah so that's that's all on my
block i walk through that every day
and that's gotten that's gotten
addressed sometimes and this is another
reason why you shouldn't dismiss what
the right wing are saying you shouldn't
dismiss what
conservatives are saying because we're
living through a period of time when the
left wing wants to do nothing but
you know embrace and encourage drug
addiction
and you know some people like me or joe
saying no you know
we really have to take seriously the
damage being done to our society by
quote-unquote decadence quote decadence
unquote you know
it's it's a problem it's a real issue
okay guys so we're
returning from one digression to another
briefly um
you know no look if you read
a pornographic magazine and and and
quote-unquote then
became gay no it wasn't the magazine
okay
it's you it's it's you whether you are
gay or straight
is about you it's you it's not somebody
else it's not some external
influence the porn magazine did not turn
you gay
and you might feel that way like you
know subjectively you might
passively feel like this this shaped who
you are
but no it's it's just not true like i i
totally understand that subjectively
i want to say when i was a kid i've
never looked up these advertisements
but there used to be these really
sexually provocative
advertisements for women's pantyhose
when i was a when i was a kid
i'm heterosexual in case you hadn't
guessed from the voice and demeanor
um but you know i can't be getting
seeing these enormous
you know advertising billboards you know
advertising women's pantyhose and
i didn't even know what sex was yet but
like
whoa this is having an influence on me
what am i am i going to tell you this
turned me straight
like this well i became heterosexual
because of this kind of
no i mean you know like at some point
it's not
the magazine it's not the poster it's
not your environment at some point it's
you
so i just say i know you know
homosexuality
it may be a difficult you know parallel
to to stretch to here
but you know your personal life your
political life and these things
you know look i'll just give you an
example i read
uh mohandas gandhi so most people refer
to him as mahatma gandhi
i call him mohandas if you don't mind
mohandas gandhi famous political
leader from india right and i know so
many people get their hands on this same
book
non-violence and peace and war and they
just read it then right from the
beginning before they've opened
it's like oh oh this is this is a great
book by a great man
oh this is genius this is a book that
changed the world and they read it in
this
unquestioning worshipful way and they go
around telling people
oh you know i have changed i've read
gandhi's book
now my people but it's not the book
it's you and i i read the same book i'm
looking at this
thinking this guy is a crackpot what the
hell is wrong with people who make
excuse for this book and support the
world there's so
much obviously self-evidently wrong with
this from the minute i'm looking at
at chapter one and i don't understand
why everyone else is ignoring it
but you know my skepticism my demands
my sense of morality my sense of
intellectual integrity
i bring that to the book right i have
those qualities and i have those
questions and i have that
you know i have the will in me and the
book
sits there lifeless and inert and i
breathe my life into it because i
wouldn't have energy to the book and in
the case of mohandas gandhi
you know i might it withers on the page
in front of my eyes you know
and with some other book it it fills it
up with light and joy and meaning and it
seems relevant to my life and seems
brilliant or seems inspirational
but but you know that's that's all on me
and you know in the same way i can say
a poster that's meant to inspire women
to buy pantyhose you know
i i bring my own will and my own sense
of you know
light and energy and i breathe that into
that poster and my
you know my imagination or my fantasies
may make this advertisement seem like a
lurid erotic spectacle but ultimately
it's on me
it's something i bring to the text
something i bring to the image it's not
it's not in these texts so sorry what
you're saying in the audience it's
completely true
some people do uh take a kind of crooked
path
from jordan peterson to right-wing
extremism
absolutely they do absolutely
how many people go from mainstream
protestant religion to right-wing
extremists
how many people go from mainstream
right-wing catholicism
to neo-nazis i mean come on let's let's
be real and it's not a simple cause and
effect that
right you can't just point the finger
and say oh well it's the fault of the
christian church
even though in many ways it is if you
guys ever watch um
oh christ i'm gonna forget the guy's
name the guy who does um
the right wing nut case you know does a
live stream and got kicked off
youtube he was at the he was at the
riots in
washington d.c on january 6th um
alex jones the whole
act of alan's alex jones it only makes
sense if you were going to the church
if you don't believe in demons if you
don't believe in
like really like old school protestant
christian preaching
you would never take seriously what alex
jones is saying it so much relies on
the culture of the the church you know
that's what the alex jones audience
comes out of
however i say again it's on you i can't
really like i can't blame
the christian church and i can't even
blame alex jones people bring to it
you know this this kind of of energy you
know so all right i'm just going to read
some of these questions and we're going
to return to the main let me tell you
the video here
so someone comments that facebook and
google made him gay
because of the corporate mandated pride
month
seeing those little rainbow icons gotcha
huh you're sitting there one day looking
at those rainbow icons and think
sucking dick
you know when you sit there looking at
that rainbow flag you start thinking
maybe sex in the vagina isn't always
cracked up to be i mean what are we what
are we really doing here guys you think
you know
you start thinking you know what maybe
growing up watching marvel movies made
me straight
and really i'm lying to myself
yeah i i i have nothing against uh
rainbow flags
i don't but it's true we're definitely
turning a point
where uh you know the the the crass
commercialization
of the formerly you know genuinely
politically important
gay rights movement it's it's reaching a
point of self-parity
there was a time when you know really
legitimately
uh gay rights was a very very important
political movement in canada and in the
united states
it still is a really important political
movement in saudi arabia
you know all kinds of muslim countries
and in some conservative christian
countries too it still is a real fight
you know
um i would say all of eastern europe you
know russia
you know gay rights in russia is still
an issue you know but
yeah the extent to which now it's become
just another way to sell you coca-cola
it's uh it's certainly a bit a bit uh
yeah it is certainly become a bit
laughable
okay yep and i made a
i made a video recently talking about
milo yiannopoulos and his
his bizarre ex-gay publicity
scheme so those are other those are
other major talking points
on the right wing now in 2021 all right
so guys i'm going to read to you the
questions that i put to
uh valiant questions that will never be
answered and we can probably wrap the
video there unless you guys got
something more you want to talk about
i would just say again what do i see as
the big fault lines
that are being illustrated by
conservatives in the far right right now
okay
mass immigration mass immigration
is that good for the working class
mass immigration mass refugee policy
who is that good for is it good for poor
people
is it good for people who didn't finish
high school is it good for people who
have factory jobs
is it good for people who went to a
community college
to learn a trade is it good for people
who work as a baker
you know what i mean after going to a
you know community college
i could study baking didn't go to
university aren't wealthy
who is who is mass immigration good for
if the left-wing parties are not going
to ask these questions they're not going
to question mass immigration
then the right-wing party is going to if
nobody on the left and nobody in the
center is going to deal with it
the right wing is going to deal with it
and it's one of the most pressing
important questions ever
okay how about drug addiction
if nobody on the left is going to deal
with it nobody in the center is going to
be able to
the right wing is going to deal with it
right okay so already we have some
interesting
qualities assigned to the right wing
okay
so we have the fact that they are
pro-sobriety
interesting anti-immigration interesting
and then i already mentioned the big
fault line within the right
they're anti-islam they're certainly
anti-judaism it seems inevitable that
they will all
also become anti-christian right but
that's that's a very deep division
because many of them are instead
doing fundraising masquerading as good
christians
let me just let me just ask you does
anyone in the audience think that
donald trump was a sincere christian at
any time of his life even as a boy
i think he ever has been a christian
donald trump you know
and uh to be fair i don't think bill
clinton ever had a day in his life in
which he was a sincere question many of
these people are
are anti-christian on the center and the
far right but they clothed themselves in
christianity
very cynically another big factor who is
the right wing
well they're anti-liberal
they're anti-woke and we're living
through a period of time when
anti-wokeness anti-political correctness
is itself a powerful rallying cry now
aesthetically i think that's one of the
main reasons why people loved
donald trump right not any particular
policy
of donald trump's not what he had to say
about tax reform
or ecology or
not his commitment to any particular not
his commitment even to building the wall
or something all right
what many people conservatives and
right-wingers liked about donald trump
was his willingness to stand up bluntly
and say things that other people found
rude and shocking and not apologize for
them right so this kind of
belligerent anti-political correctness
even being offensive for the sake of
being offensive um and an ethic and an
aesthetic
captured by many stand-up comedians
but of demanding this kind of disruptive
honesty return to politics
and shatter the veneer of corporate
liberalism
and corporate conservatism alike and you
instead return to a more
kind of earnest and rough form of
populist politic
okay so this is what's going on on the
right this is what's going on with
conservatives now
and i think this is you know a very
potent
mix of uh highly highly reactive
chemicals even if many of them are
highly toxic chemicals
shall we say all right so i turned now
to this this question you'll see these
questions i post there are only
five of them to evaluate they get at
these kinds of contradictions within
the far right wing and those
contradictions reveal and shed light on
things that are going on in mainstream
conservatism and i think
all the way over to the far left wing as
you'll soon see
question one you've been one of the few
people willing to talk about the extent
to which the extreme left and the
extreme right quote-unquote overlap
in the 21st century i have seen examples
of alt-right neo-nazis
suddenly becoming tankies suddenly
becoming stalinists
suddenly becoming maoists on the
internet
and you've seen examples of the opposite
you've seen tankies becoming nazis
do you think this just tells us
something but the kind of person who
becomes an extremist
left or right in 2021 or do you think
this draws our attention to some things
the far left and far right
have in common now again i don't want to
tell her private stories at a school
um during our conversation she told me a
lot of private things about herself and
i think
probably all of it is scattered around
the internet somewhere i told her about
my divorce and my situation with my
daughter she told me about her divorce
and her situation with her kids which
again she's talked about
she talked about her relationship with
her ex-husband and other people in her
life you know
she did really talk to me personally
about this stuff
and so when i say you know examples of
people who went from being communists
to being neo-nazis right we are talking
about people she
really knew and really worked with and
um
[Music]
the particular political parties she was
involved with in canada
they they definitely included this kind
of lunacy
now um
[Laughter]
i don't want to digress into my own
philosophy in this video
but i think it's important to to
recognize that the most fundamental evil
here
is not authoritarianism it's belief
itself and the type of person who wants
to believe
once they are willing to believe in
left-wing authoritarianism
they are conditioned to just as easily
believe in right-wing authoritarianism
and once they're conditioned to believe
in right-wing authoritarianism
they're just as as easily conditioned to
to switch to
left-wing foreigners but i do think it's
important to keep in mind the
fundamental problem there is
belief itself and people who want to
believe
right even if they're dissatisfied with
a particular
religion they'll switch to another
religion they they become disillusioned
with a particular cult
but they remain a cult believer they
find a new cult leader
i think this is part of this is me
answering my own question here i do not
think that would be her answer the
question we will never know what the
valiant had to say
in response to this question two you've
spoken about the kind of fear
pardon me you've spoken about the kind
of fear
that inspires many white nationalists or
perhaps most
the fear of becoming an ethnic minority
within countries that are currently
white majority ruled is one example
the fear of discovering through dna
tests that you're not really the
ethnicity you imagined yourself to be
is another so again i know this is
surreal for most in the audience it just
sounds ridiculous
but that drama played out several times
with
right-wing demagogues here on youtube
tara mccarthy herself discovered or
revealed
that she was not as white as she
pretended to be that she actually did
have
partly uh indian ancestry and partly
jewish ancestry
now i don't care because i'm not racist
whether you're
partly of indian ancestry or partly of
jewish essence you're just fine with me
but guess what she had she had built up
this huge audience of rabid neo-nazis
they did not see it that way so there
have been several examples of this
and where people are shocked to discover
themselves that they're actually partly
jewish
or some other ethnic group that they
themselves are racist against
thanks the availability of dna tests
this is not a purely hypothetical thing
again i think she she's connected to
people whether by the internet or uh
or people she's known in real life who
had this kind of shocking discovery all
right
quote from the outside looking in i
mostly see a yearning to be special
not fear as the primary motivation
the desire to be famous the desire to be
part of an elite
the desire to be extraordinary without
making the effort to do something that
really would be extraordinary
seems to me rightly or wrongly more
important than
fear it seems to me a kind of rebellion
against the mediocrity and
meaninglessness of their lives
the refusal to admit that you're just a
normal person from a normal town
insisting instead that your own inborn
racial identity
and a huge conspiracy that's trying to
destroy it makes you a very special
person
period we understand this desire
to be special as a kind of fame whoring
or is it just another kind of fear the
fear of discovering that you're not
important that you're not special at all
question three the overt
white nationalists supporters of a quote
unquote ethno state
it's always the term they use tend to
choose japan
as an example of what their desired goal
for white people would be
so this is itself something very telling
and many of you in the audience if you
haven't been following right-wing
politics you wouldn't be aware of this
but very often the right-wingers say
that they are neither more nor less
racist than
japan they just want to have a country
that is more like japan is for the
japanese
rather than a country built on
multiculturalism mass immigration
refugee policy etc etc
however contemporary china and israel
are also
sometimes used as examples without irony
even though these white nationalist
groups are anti-communist
and anti-semitic so she and i had
already chatted about this i knew
that she already was familiar with
exactly what i'm talking about here
that there are right-wingers and
neo-nazis who say that what they want
for white people is a state similar to
what the state of israel is
for jewish people that they want an
openly
ethnic nationalist state you know
defined on a racial identity this way
now more than one interesting thing to
say about that
israel is based on a religious identity
not an ethnic identity they overlap to
some extent but if you ever go to israel
or even just look at some youtube
channels about what life is like in
israel
actually judaism is internally uh
multi-ethnic to a remarkable extent so
and to give an example there are
african-americans there are black people
born and raised in the united states of
america
who've converted to judaism and they
also are allowed to become israeli
citizens and
they're some of the most vocal political
dissidents over there they get into
conflict with the government and so on
but there are so i just say there are
black jewish people
and there are uh iranian jewish people
and iraqi jewish people and north
african
jewish people and so it's not the case
the jewish people are one
ethnicity nevertheless it is remarkable
that right wingers they don't just point
to japan as the model of what they want
they
also will point to israel and they also
will point
to uh china so i'm just going to pause
to
to um
read some comments yes james is
commenting about machiavelli
that is true frieda says
quote left-wing authoritarianism almost
always translates into a government
without a constitution
today's mexican government is an example
of this close quote
an interesting comment i have nothing to
to say about that
that you think that left wingers are
less interested in having a written
constitution then right-wingers are
conservatives
i will have to mull that over frida i
have never heard it suggested before
that constitutionality and the role of
written as opposed to unwritten law
that that is itself a difference between
left and right as a genuinely
original suggestion to me um i might
disagree with you
if i had enough time to think about it
or research it but
i think i think you you know what i mean
i think you've actually made a
provocative and interesting
statement there that the left cares less
about written law it cares less about
written constitutions
uh than the right that you might have a
point there and there might be a
weakness
of the left also you know um
comment from michael quote right-wing
conservatism has done
well in presenting an inclusive movement
you can be white black jewish gay vegan
and said well
and michael you're not mentioning
hispanic a huge
effort they're making on the the right
wing
and and the right-wing and conservatives
generally is to include
hispanic christians hispanic catholics
and they're succeeding
you know it's not easy for the left to
include hispanics so know that
yeah i'm not blind to these things i
know not that many people have been here
since the start of the video
but some of these things were mentioned
earlier and i said that it's very easy
for you know um cnn
to reduce every conflict to being about
ethnicity when actually there are more
meaningful
religious cultural and genuinely
political divisions
that only roughly correspond to
ethnic divisions so uh someone named ron
in the audience
asks why do people think that the left
wing is
is anti-semitic so rex in
two words is real palestine so
the left wing is is quite unhealthily
obsessed with the israel-palestine
conflict
and there is i mean there's
anti-semitism everywhere in modern
politics
but for the left the question of where
you stand on
israel-palestine and hamas and all that
that becomes a litmus test
for whether or not you're you're
left-wing enough um
so yeah i think that's all i need to say
about that but yeah sure also just
generally
the whole of western christian culture
is
profoundly shaped by anti-semitism and
the whole of
well the whole of eastern orthodox
culture is shaped by anti-semitism also
but beyond that of course muslim culture
on a global scale is is intensely
symmetric so
these are there are major major sources
over the place for anti-semitism but
certainly the left-wing engagement with
the israel-palestine issue puts on
shortfalls okay so i continue
my questions for rebellion that we'll
forever go and answer
um okay i continue quote i have seen
neo-nazis say that what they want for
themselves is basically a state of
israel for white americans or white
canadians etc
what do you think japan envy china
envy and israel envy tell us about the
white americans and canadians
who sign up for these ideologies
why would they imagine their own lives
would be better if they lived in a
country that was more like
japan or china or israel
now i just say generally i encourage
people to ask these kinds of questions
in the context of political debates as
opposed to attacking someone's character
like whether you're talking to someone
who's right-wing or left-wing
with a left-wing officer just ask them
in an opening way
how do you think life would be better
if canada were more like communist china
or you know
i don't know what the example would be
how do you think life would be better if
canada
were more like communist cuba communist
vietnam
the soviet union in the year 1948 or
something you know whatever the year is
you're going to pick under under
stalinism or something
you know to ask that in a sincere way
but in a challenging way
and not let them off the hook because
very often a communist or left-winger
will say oh well
i'm not saying that i'm just saying no
you are
if you represent communism you're saying
life would be better if this is more
like that
that's absolute broadest you know so
let's let's really be sincere about this
and they may have never reasoned that
through or thought it through
so it's certainly someone interested to
put to a right winger the same sort of
question
and ask look if this is what you believe
that this is what you represent if this
is the goal or destiny
you are leading your movement towards
so what's so great about it what is it
you think is desirable what do you think
is uh
what do you think is positive a question
from
uh william
the left in the u.s has four democrat
congresswomen
who make anti-semitic comments with no
one questioning them
well so william i will relate this back
so he is alluding to
ilhan omar or possibly alexander kazar
cortez this is this is who you're
alluding to
presumably but i will actually relate
this back to our earlier discussion
about jordan peterson
and that is that the stupider you think
these people are
the less seriously you take those
comments and i have to say i regard most
of the people you're talking about
as as not being intentionally
anti-semitic i just regard them as very
stupid
and likewise i extend the same you know
token to someone like
uh jordan peterson i think that most of
what he's saying it's just stupid
he doesn't really have a right wing
agenda he's just an idiot so
there's a kind of stupidity versus evil
uh there's two sides of the bounce here
intentional evil versus unintentional uh
stupidity
but yeah frida is just commenting that
where she lives also left wingers make a
lot of manny smith
i've dealt with it i've added directly
directed to me as someone who's
genetically jewish
you know i'm not a member of the jewish
religion i'm just big and tough and
scary
so it works out for me it doesn't really
bother me that much people coming but no
anti-semitism is is popular on the left
and it's
at the moment in 2021 it is broadly
speaking
a popular ideology of our times so we
have to we have to deal with whatever we
have to expect it everywhere put it that
way
all right question four quote a large
part of what i see on the internet
within right-wing extremism
within left-wing extremism and even
within vegan
extremism is hostility toward
university-educated people
i didn't read this before it's such a
good point such a good point
i completely forgot i made that point
so before when i was summarizing what's
going on in the right wing i forgot
about that but that's part of the
support for donald trump and for this
type of right-wing populism
silvio berlusconi any of these guys part
of it is
hostility against university educated
people and a yearning
to have political leaders who do not act
like college boys
to use an untranslatable you know
american
political idiom so sorry i forgot i made
this point i didn't read this before
during the broadcast all right there's
gonna be that again
a large part of what i see on the
internet within right-wing extremism
within left-wing extremism and even
within vegan extremism
is hostility toward university-educated
people
and suspicion directed toward
university-granted expertise
very true both neo-nazis and
neo-communists tend to regard the whole
banking system
and very basic aspects of normal
economics as a secret conspiracy
both groups along with many hippies and
many vegans regard health information
provided by the government as a
conspiracy
when marijuana was illegal that was
supposed to be a conspiracy
now that marijuana is increasingly
legally available there is instead of
conspiracy to keep people stoned and
weak
etc both left-wing extremists and
right-wing extremists
tend to do a lot of reading and watching
youtube videos but of course what
they're reading are never university
textbooks never recognize these by the
establishment as factual or educational
instead their alternative history
alternative health alternative economics
etc
so i asked the question to what extent
is neo-nazism
a rebellion against university education
or the kind of elite
status of knowledge granted by
universities
admittedly a valiant may not have the
answer to this question but that is a
great question
to put to you in the audience it's a
great question you guys think okay last
uh last question last question for
evalian and last question from the
audience
william asks who is the stupid who put
me
who is the stupidest omar talib
or cortez so this is uh comparing the
associates of
uh aoc here uh he says
i say cortes omar has the most hateful
and finally
it's a it's a race to the bottom guys um
i will just say you know having
something in common with somebody is
very different
from evaluating their intelligence
and deeming them to be a highly
intelligent or highly confident person
you know like if you feel you have a lot
in common with alexandria cortez like
you want the same kind of future you
want to have
better health care for poor people or
this kind of more compassionate view of
what to do with the government's money
like you want to reduce spending on the
military and increase spending to help
poor people to very broadly characterize
the bernie sanders
political tendency you want to have
cheaper tuition in universities in the
united states this kind of thing
you have to set that aside with
detachment and evaluate who someone is
intellectually and who someone is you
know
ethically i also think you have to
evaluate who someone is
you know emotionally um
[Music]
you know early on in napoleon's career
you could tell how bad things were going
to get
you could see ethically and
intellectually
what kind of guy napoleon really was you
know
i'm just saying there might have been a
stage if you had been alive in france at
that time
when you i don't mean someone
hypothetically i mean you if you were
alive in france
during the rise of napoleon you might
have thought well isn't this politically
convenient
here's this guy who has a lot in common
with me
and he's going to get rid of the
right-wing extremists and he's going to
get rid of the left-wing extremists the
jacobins was both so napoleon was a
moderate centrist
who was going to politically repress the
royalist religious conservative
right-wing and he was going to repress
the
left-wing jacobin egalitarian so that
was his significance
a lot of you people in the audience
right now if you've been alive at that
time you might have really thought that
you should
support otherwise napoleon but if you
weren't evaluating how much he had in
common with you
if you were instead evaluating who he
was
intellectually ethically and emotionally
i think you'd come to some really dark
conclusions
and that would foretell just how bad the
uh
dictatorship of napoleon would soon
become
so that's a very separate question i
mean you know i may i may have all kinds
of things in common with alexandria
ocasio-cortez
but i think she's stupid you know it's a
different judgment
i i'm just being honest i could imagine
her being a friend of mine
you know i'm sorry if i knew her
person-to-person but i think every time
i'd be talking
like you know alex
she'd be one of those friends where
you're trying to be nice
but she's really not the sharpest you
know
attack in the stack you know
all right so final question for evalium
earlier you and i both reflected that
people who endorse mass murder
tend to be deeply flawed characters in
other aspects of their lives
morally flawed intellectually flawed and
so on
often enough they emerge from tragic
personal circumstances
shattered home lives etc now just pause
again sheena had a personal conversation
but she was talking about
the people she had known especially the
men she had known
some of them were women though but men
and women she'd known
personally who were in this right-wing
extreme movement
and she was saying you know there were
patterns
with these people it seems like all of
them come from a shattered home
all them have certain kinds of emotional
conflict with their parents with their
ex-wives with
you know there's certain patterns to see
again and again and they seem to be
escaping
from this personal tragedy by embracing
right-wing extremism
so anyway she she herself was commenting
on this type of pattern
to what extent are these people
right-wing or left-wing extremists
just trying to make themselves happy
through their politics
it's the toughest question of all guys
what could be more pathetic but it's
true i meet these people with them
what could be more pathetic than meeting
someone who's embraced communism
has embraced you know whether it's mao
zedong or stalin
or this new movement we were just
criticizing on the channel the land back
movement
when you really get down to why are you
doing this to yourself
they're just trying to be
it's happy most of the time that's what
it comes down to they're just trying to
be happy they have a miserable life
they're unhappy with things their life
and they join an extremist movement
because they're trying to be happy you
know um
trying to be happy and they're going
about it you know the wrong way
people certainly tend to create a
fictional character for themselves on
instagram
or on reddit or on youtube or on tumblr
just to make themselves happy by playing
that role
or by drawing a certain kind of
attention to themselves
obviously what i have just said is very
true of evalian herself
as a younger woman it's very true of bel
delphine
herself as a younger woman and it's very
true of the vegan activist
i mentioned as an example vegan booty
right
these are people who created a persona
created a false
person created a puppet version of
themselves on the internet
just to make themselves happy just to
draw attention themselves
and then in some cases they start
escalating their act
to get more attention by through more
extreme and more provocative
uh displays i continue my question here
for valiant
what is it about nazi extremism that
makes people
feel happy
what is it about nazi extremism that
makes people feel happy
even if it is just for a short time
what is it about justifying the
holocaust
that would make someone or a certain
kind of
flawed character feel better
about themselves
i have had to ask communists the
parallel question
again and again and again i have had to
ask my own
father and my own mother these questions
again and again and i just say
you know guys if there are people in
your own life you can reach out to maybe
it's someone your own age maybe someone
younger than you
maybe you have a cousin or a nephew or a
brother or sister or younger
younger friend who's getting involved
with stuff you know
it's very hard to keep them on topic but
one type of question you can ask is okay
look
so stalin and this mass murder
what is it you like about that what is
it that draws you
what is it you like about communism i
would even say this about anarchism
you know okay so what is it you like
about this so you know
is it the violence is it this you know
or don't even put words just
ask them to tell you on their own terms
what is it
you like about this and sure with
something as obviously
dark and gruesome as you know
right-wing extremists getting involved
with anti-semitism and justifying the
holocaust and so on
i think there's a very simple but
ultimately quite deep
question to be asked there of what do
you like
about this uh what you like about this
ideology anyway so there's someone here
who's saying that they're
they have a an elder relative presume i
don't know if they're now deceased
they're either deceased or very elderly
who was in the history hitler youth and
she was she was very eager
pardon me okay i gotta end this soon
because i'm stumbling with my words and
there's someone here who has someone in
there had a relative in the grandparents
generation who was in the in the hitler
youth and he says that this relative of
his was very evil
so you know i just heard an in-depth
report from the new york times dealing
with this
and there's no doubt a lot of the people
who today have become neo-nazis
had contact with a grandparent who was
an actual nazi
you know or a great grandparent even
they had some kind of human connection
to that that made them start thinking
and feeling in a certain way start
starting to make them feel feel special
you know
and um i've probably told this story
before but my boss
when i was in thailand he was a very
elderly white man and his mother
had been alive in that nancy generations
he was an elderly man he was a small
child
in the nazi period most of his members
were after nazi's men ended
but his mother was really an adult at
just that time of just that period
and he had this great story it's a story
where nothing happens in it
but she went to a public meeting so this
would be something like a
city hall meeting or local provincial
council meeting
where she stood up and she had a
newspaper
that was reporting that hitler was
carrying out these atrocities against
jews and against
anyone who questioned the regime
basically you know
and she stood up at this meeting and
said passionately
that she knows that these are lies made
up by foreign governments
because she feels that the members of
her party she was a member of the
[ __ ] nazi party she was actually
for the fight she said that she felt
that these were all good people
that they would never do something like
this she says like i know these people
like i know
i know this can't be true yeah and
this is what i say it's a great story
although nothing happens in this
classically german way
all the all the other people at the
meeting they just sit there with their
arms crossed one
[Laughter]
nobody responded to her verbally
but with the silence and with the look
in their eyes they just communicated to
her
don't you get it are you the one person
who didn't get the memo
like everyone else in this room knows
what's going on in terms of the
holocaust in terms of
in terms of uh mass murder you know
and interestingly she took off her
her nancy badge right there she quit
that day she quit the party she formally
filled out the forms to to quit
the nazi party uh she rejected the nazi
part and they didn't pursue her they
didn't throw in jail or punish her they
like they let her get away with it
you know um and from that day forward
she rejected the night but this and they
never told her
you know but she went to this meeting
and she said that she still believed in
the party and that she still believed
they wouldn't do anything evil like this
she got this kind of silent raised
eyebrow response
and she made a moral commitment to quit
uh the nazi party
now anyway when i first heard that story
i said to him i said to my boss
wow you know so she must have been a
person of real
moral fiber she must have been someone
who's willing to to risk her life
this way because you know sorry to
publicly then denounce and reject the
nazi party
during the nazi period living in nazi
germany raising a kid there and stuff
this was really putting your your neck
on the line
you know that was how i interpreted the
anecdote was this was someone who was
bold
and you know morally self-confident and
you know
he told me something really useful he
said no you know she was a very
simple-minded woman
she didn't understand the danger she was
in at all there was no courage involved
she was really just so stupid she really
was
a naive childish stupid person who went
to that meeting
with this newspaper saying i know what
it says the newspaper is wrong because
we're all moral people
and then when she got the message that
they're not all moral people she quit
the part and she
there was no heroism there was no
self-confidence
she she just didn't think of it that way
at all so
you know this illustrates you know a
very different kind of moral of the
story about what this
this video is is all about the way in
which politics is for
for simple-minded people a very
dangerous place to play
okay guys so you know wrapping this up i
basically have the same
moral to put to the story that i put to
so many of my youtube videos
let's talk about you know um
uh money fame power respect
and sex you know and i do
think that when you look at the life of
a valiant when you look at the life
of bel delphine when you look at the
life of this vegan activist i mentioned
vegan booty who is now making money on
only fans
you know there was a time
when involvement in political parties
really meant a kind of humble
anonymous self-sacrificing volunteerism
right and i've done a little bit about
of that myself like we're joining a
political party it's still true to
significance that joining a political
party meant that you would
go to the party headquarters get a bunch
of pamphlets
and then walk door to door giving people
the ham pamphlets and saying hey
i hope you'll consider voting for us i
hope you'll if you have any questions
about the party platform right
that was political activism right
and that's changed now
nobody wants to be a follower everybody
wants to be a leader
and you can be a leader you can be a
leader on your own instagram profile you
can be a leader on your own youtube
channel your own facebook group and your
own patreon and your own only fans
and if if you're attractive as a man or
woman a lot of the guys in this game a
lot of the men
are trading under sex appeal too this is
a critique that applies to men and women
i can't say it appeals to them pardon me
i can't say the critique applies to men
and women
equally because it is it is harder to
make money as a man
selling pornography it's just harder
it's just not as easy
however it does apply to men and women
both um
it's a tremendous significance for for
men and women alike
but we have this situation where
formerly
obscure formerly humble formally
humiliating paths to power through
politics
that might require many years of
laboring in obscurity of
meeting in secrecy that's true for
right-wing extremists it's true for
level insurance but it's true for
mainstream
politics also i mean if i talk to my
girlfriend about like oh well
do you want to get involved with the
most boring mainstream political party
like the democrat party in the united
states do you have any idea how many
years of going to boring meetings and
sitting and waiting your turn to speak
with people you don't particularly
respect who people don't want to listen
to you and you don't want to listen to
them
what a long path to power that might be
um so a lot of different examples come
to my mind right now there's an
anti-corruption
group i was just looking into and i just
emailed them trying to get a an
interview
actually i'm writing them and they
they've now had their 10-year
anniversary
so they've been 10 years they've been
working against corruption in the
american political system
and it's this humble you know anonymous
boring
slow work right oh
but now we have the internet now it's
not a matter of you going to the party
headquarters and getting a group of
pamphlets
and then walking around anonymously
handing out these pamphlets now everyone
can make their own pamphlets even if
that's all you do
right everyone can have their own
website everyone can have their own
little measure
of fame everyone can have their own live
stream everyone can be a leader
everyone can be a distance everyone
could be an author and you know
fundamentally i think that's a beautiful
thing one of the most important things
is that it challenges you to do your own
reading
it challenges you to do your own writing
it challenges you to invent your own
ideology
question select the the solutions
question you know what's going on in
politics and come to your own
conclusions in a way that you never
would
if you were really a follower of a
political party
in the way that was standard in the
1930s in the 1940s and 1950s and still
you know in the 1960s so i i can't say
that it's a bad thing
that we fundamentally have fewer and
fewer followers and more and more
leaders in politics even if each leader
is leading uh a tiny and an irrelevant
troop
of people who are willing to listen to
their to their opinions now you can just
also compare that to the way radio used
to work
it used to be that there was one man who
had a call-in radio show on one radio
station and that was it every day there
would just be
one two three four or five people whose
opinion about politics mattered on the
radio
and radio gathered together the focus
and attention of the
the public on one spot and made everyone
listen to just one man's voice
and today anyone can be the host of
their own radio talk show anyone can
have their own
have their own podcast right but
you know you see the problem you see the
danger
um it's very easy to say that a
valiant's whole life would be better off
if she had simply never gotten famous
you know it's gonna sound strange it
would be easy to say
evalian's whole life would be better off
if she had just been
ugly enough that she didn't have the
kind of easy success she had when she
was first
toying with the internet first toying
with exploiting her own
appearance attractiveness and trying to
commercialize her sexuality
on the internet like how much better off
would her whole life be now if she had
just stayed in school
and gotten a conventional job as opposed
to now being on a terrorist watch list
and so on and so forth because she got
into as i say this very strange
situation where she was combining
trolling and political commentary with
escalating levels of edginess and sexual
provocativeness
to get an avalanche of monetary support
male attention and what have you
i mean her whole act it was in the same
way that vegan booties whole act this
this particular vegan activist
who also sells nude images of herself on
all events
in the same way all these different
things come together on on one
you know at one crossroads in this
person's life
and when it's over and done with that
person is left with you know
absolutely nothing um
ultimately you know politics is about
outcomes
and what i have to keep saying to my
audience again and again is
you know the ultimate outcome that
matters
is you is who are you what kind of
person are you going to be
who are you going to become and the
other outcomes we're talking about in
politics
they may just not happen you know some
people will say back to that
selflessly and sincerely enough they'll
say oh well i don't care what happens to
me
i just want to achieve this noble
political goal i'm pursuing whether
that's a left wing goal or a right-wing
goal or an environmental goal
a great example would be global warming
lots of people today will line up to say
oh well i
don't care about myself this isn't about
my ego or my life
as long as i can save the planet as long
as i can reverse
global warming through my political
activism just that alone
and i'll be happy you know and they
don't see
what a um they don't see what a
grandiose delusion
you know this really is and that really
the humbler and more pragmatic course of
action would be to think okay
here's the kind of person i want to
become now
i'm not saying you should separate that
from the kind of political consequence
you're pursuing
i'm saying just the opposite
[Music]
if you decide that you want to be the
kind of person
whose opinion is taken seriously about
ecology
really think about what that entails you
know
really think about a hard lonesome path
that might be for many years to say i
want to be the kind of person who when i
speak about this
or when i make a youtube video about
this when i write an article about it
people take my opinion about ecology
seriously
and here's why you know there are many
paths that it's not that there's just
one path it's not that you're
only going to get there by earning a phd
in ecology
there are many ways that you could put
yourself in a position where your
opinion about ecology
really matters if you sit down and think
and where you were going to be able to
push respect
where you were going to be able to go
around and say hey look
i need you to respect my expertise or
what i have say about ecology for this
reason this reason
what if instead of ecology it's
economics whether you're left-wing
or wing or centrist if you start by
saying what kind of person do i want to
be
i want to be someone where everyone
takes what i have to say about economics
seriously there are
many paths to that kind of power it's
not as simple as saying get a phd
in economics right but if you put that
first and foremost
you don't talk about for example saving
the planet as the presumed outcome of
baptism you don't talk about say
uh raising the minimum wage or
liberating the working class or
something is your presumed outcome
but if you just say to yourself honestly
i want to be the kind of person
whose opinion on this subject matters
and then you start living your life
accordingly right that can be part and
parcel of the pursuit of political
change
in a way that's really wholesome in a
way that is
not destructive to you personally and is
not destructive to this
society that you live in as a whole